Q: What standard covers rigging guidelines referenced in the Capstan Hoist training?
A: ANSI A10.48 Rigging Guidelines.

Q: What are the three most common lifting devices found in the telecommunications industry?
A: Gin Poles, Base Mounted Hoists, and Capstan Hoists.

Q: What is a gin pole used for?
A: A gin pole is a lifting device that allows headroom above the highest fixed point on a structure. They are typically used to raise or lower sections of a tower during construction and demolition operations.

Q: What is a base mounted hoist used for?
A: A base mounted hoist is used for overhead material lifting and lifting of personnel during construction and maintenance of a communication structure.

Q: What is a capstan hoist used for?
A: A capstan hoist is a piece of equipment used in conjunction with synthetic rope to lift light materials vertically up a tower.

Q: What are the main features of a capstan hoist (cathead)?
A: Main tool for lifting materials up and down communication structures, motorized drum winch, rotates in one direction only, uses rope and a block, and a foot pedal controls the on/off function.

Q: What are the three common drive train types for capstan hoists?
A: Electric (power source depends on model), Hydraulic, and Gasoline.

Q: What are the electric power options for capstan hoists?
A: 12 VDC @ 100A, 115 VAC @ 14A (requires a Heavy-Duty 20Amp C/B and Outlet), and 230 VAC @ 60 Hz 10Amp C/B.

Q: What is the typical load rating of the Chance Series 90 capstan hoist model used at ARI?
A: The 1,000 lb. load rating, 115VAC powered model.

Q: What gauge extension cord is recommended for the Chance Series 90 115VAC capstan hoist?
A: Recommended 12-gauge extension cord should be used.

Q: What safety device should be used while operating an electric powered hoist?
A: A GFCI (Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter) should be used while operating electric powered hoist.

Q: How much does the planetary gear drive of the capstan hoist weigh?
A: Weighs about 40 lbs.

Q: Will the capstan hoist rotate backwards?
A: No, it will not rotate backwards.

Q: What is the rope grab feature of the capstan hoist?
A: The rope grab is spring loaded, but can become broken or damaged frequently.

Q: What are the key features of the foot switch/pedal on the capstan hoist?
A: Leaves both hands free for operation and is water resistant.

Q: What are the typical lifting capacities for capstan hoists?
A: Lifting capacity varies - 1000 lbs. and 3000 lbs.

Q: Is the capstan hoist maintenance intensive?
A: No, it is virtually mechanically maintenance free.

Q: When should you inspect the capstan hoist?
A: Inspect before each use.

Q: What areas of the capstan hoist require special attention during inspection?
A: Electrical cable strain relief (tends to get torn away exposing electrical wires), rope grooves can develop on the drum, connection bolts for tightness, mounting hardware, and the locking pin for the swivel plate to ensure it is secure.

Q: Why should the capstan hoist be the only item connected to the electric power source?
A: Other tools reduce the flow to the capstan which can reduce the pulling power and can burn out the capstan motor.

Q: What is the minimum wattage output power for generators used for remote job sites?
A: Minimum 4000 watts output power.

Q: What are the three types of anchorages for capstan hoists?
A: Chain bracket, Receiver hitch, and Swivel base (turntable - be careful of base breaks and pin shearing, can be incorporated with the receiver hitch).

Q: What must anchorage strength have to pull the load?
A: Must have required strength to pull the load, with a load design factor of 2.0 times, or load tested to 1.5 the gross load.

Q: When using a receiver hitch bracket, what must you ensure?
A: Ensure that it is designed/manufactured to carry the load and has the safety factor to carry the load.

Q: What safety measures must be taken when using a receiver hitch bracket?
A: Always engage the emergency brake, set parking brake, and chock wheels of the vehicle.

Q: What is the preferred pulling direction when using a receiver hitch bracket?
A: Pulling sideways (or 90° to length of vehicle) - less chance of movement. Inline can cause vehicle to roll or slide.

Q: How does the swivel base allow for optimal lifts?
A: The swivel base allows for optimal lifts by properly aligning the drum with the rigging block.

Q: Where are load ratings for a capstan hoist provided?
A: Load ratings are provided by the manufacturer and annotated on the ID plate on the hoist.

Q: Where should the load side be positioned on the capstan drum?
A: Load side shall always be on the inside of drum.

Q: Where should the pull side be positioned on the capstan drum?
A: Pull side shall always be on the outside of drum.

Q: How many wraps should you start with on the capstan drum?
A: Start with 3-5 full wraps on the drum.

Q: What mechanical advantage do 4 wraps provide on the capstan drum?
A: 4 wraps = 44:1 mechanical advantage (1 lb. force on pull side for every 44 lbs. of lifting force needed on load side).

Q: What determines the number of wraps needed on the capstan drum?
A: Number of wraps is dependent on the weight of the load, block/tackle system, and size or age of rope.

Q: What type of rope works best on capstan hoists?
A: Synthetic fiber ropes work best on capstan hoists.

Q: How must rope be rated for use with capstan hoists?
A: Must be rated to handle 1.5 times the load.

Q: What are the safe rope diameter ranges for use on capstan drums?
A: Smallest is 3/8" and largest is 3/4".

Q: Why should natural fiber rope NOT be used on capstan drums?
A: It shall NOT be used due to degradation from UV rays.

Q: Why should polypropylene rope NOT be used on capstan drums?
A: It shall NOT be used due to slick nature and low melting point.

Q: What rope types are ideal for use on capstan drums?
A: Polyester/Nylon - ideal rope to USE on capstan drum (low stretch, flexible). Static Kernmantle is also good for lifting use (low stretch, less flexible than polyester).

Q: What does BS stand for in rope terminology?
A: BS = Breaking Strength.

Q: What does MBS stand for in rope terminology?
A: MBS = Minimum Breaking Strength.

Q: What does FS stand for in rope terminology?
A: FS = Factor of Safety.

Q: What does WLL stand for in rope terminology?
A: WLL = Working Load Limit.

Q: What is the standard practice for manufacturer and supply specification sheets regarding rope strength?
A: Always use the value in the minimum strength column.

Q: When should ropes be inspected?
A: Ropes shall be inspected before each use.

Q: What should be done with ropes that fail inspection?
A: Ropes that fail inspection should be taken out of service.

Q: How should you align the drum of the capstan hoist with the block?
A: Align the drum of the Capstan Hoist with the block to prevent overlapping.

Q: What tool should be used to ensure proper drum alignment?
A: Use the Test-Pick to ensure proper drum alignment.

Q: What is the proper positioning for the truck when using a capstan hoist on a tower?
A: Truck should be positioned at 90 degrees from the tower.

Q: What should be done with the capstan mount when setting up?
A: Capstan Mount should be swiveled to proper alignment with the load.

Q: What safety measure must be taken with the vehicle tires?
A: Tires must be chocked.

Q: What must be ensured about the operator's position?
A: Operator must be free of obstructions.

Q: What knots are less susceptible to coming untied for attaching to loads?
A: Figure-8 On-a-Bight, Figure-8 Follow-Through, and Inside Bowline.

Q: How are blocks labeled?
A: All blocks are labeled with WLL (Working Load Limit).

Q: What should you do if a block label can't be read?
A: If label can't be read, do not use equipment.

Q: How must blocks be rated in relation to the weight of the load?
A: Blocks must be rated for twice the weight of the load.

Q: What type of block sheave has an angled slope shoulder?
A: Wire rope block = angled slope shoulder.

Q: What type of block sheave has a vertical slope shoulder?
A: Rope block sheave = vertical slope shoulder.

Q: How is sheave diameter relevant to rope?
A: Diameter is directly relevant to size of rope. Must fit properly in the sheave.

Q: What happens when using a smaller diameter sheave?
A: Using smaller diameter sheave reduces WLL of rope.

Q: What ratio should be applied when selecting sheaves?
A: Apply the D/D Ratio (Diameter to Diameter ratio).

Q: What is the purpose of tag lines?
A: Tag lines are used to keep hoisted loads from contacting structures or power lines.

Q: What is the critical safety rule regarding tag lines and hands/body?
A: NEVER WRAP ROPES AROUND HANDS OR BODY.

Q: Can structures or vehicles be used as a redirect for tag lines?
A: Yes, structures or vehicles may be used as a redirect.

Q: What hitch can be used to add friction for more control with tag lines?
A: A münter hitch can be used to add friction for more control.

Q: What knots are acceptable for tag lines only?
A: Square Knot, Sheet Bend, Bowline, Clove Hitch, and Two-Half Hitches.

Q: What is a straight tag system?
A: Load line through a top block and connected to the load.

Q: When is a heel block configuration used?
A: Used if you need distance between the hoist and the tower due to power lines, trees, guy lines or any other obstructions.

Q: Where is the heel block configuration typically used?
A: Typically used on guy line towers.

Q: What is a trolley tag system?
A: More control while keeping the load away from the structure. Through the block but attaching a trolley block to the load.

Q: What are the advantages of a dedicated trolley tag system?
A: Provides added control to lead line and removes visual obstruction, allows diverse hoist setup options, provides superior load control, tag induces least force onto load, and predictable rigging forces in load line.

Q: Why should you start the hoist to view physical rotation direction?
A: To determine which way to load the rope wraps (load side on inside, pull side on outside).

Q: What mechanical advantage does 4 wraps provide on startup?
A: 4 wraps = 44:1 mechanical advantage (for every lb. of pull, you can lift 44 pounds).

Q: What should you do after loading the rope on the drum?
A: Test pick the load by pulling few inches off ground.

Q: What is the critical safety rule about adding wraps?
A: NEVER ADD WRAPS WHILE DRUM IS ROTATING.

Q: What must the capstan setup allow for the operator?
A: Make sure the set up allows view of the load, ensure you can view the signal person, not too close to the vehicle (enough room to operate the capstan hoist), and make sure the rope can move smoothly.

Q: What must be considered regarding slack rope in capstan setup?
A: Room for slack rope; not at the operator's feet.

Q: What must happen if the capstan hoist overlaps during operation?
A: The capstan hoist must be directly in line with the load; overlapping of rope can occur. Must STOP operation if overlap occurs.

Q: How do you fix rope overlap on the capstan?
A: Secure pull line, use controlled method to take load weight from capstan head and rope to manually fix overlap (can be done by using a prusik attached to a 4:1 pulley system).

Q: When should you add wraps to the capstan drum?
A: Add wraps when there is too much load on the pull side.

Q: When should you remove wraps from the capstan drum?
A: Remove wraps when not enough tension causing overlapping.

Q: When must the means of hand signals and communication be determined?
A: Before the job starts.

Q: What hand signal standard should be used?
A: ANSI Standardized Hand Signals.

Q: What should be utilized for voice communication?
A: Utilize established voice communication protocol. Phonetic Alphabet used for communicating letters over radio/phone.

Q: What should you do before using a capstan hoist?
A: Read and understand the manufacturer's instruction manual and warnings before use.

Q: What is the minimum required PPE for capstan hoist operation?
A: Hard hat, leather gloves, safety glasses, and safety toe boots.

Q: What must you know before starting a capstan hoist job?
A: Know the weight of object or force to pull the cable before starting job. Take time to understand: the job at hand, the equipment being used, and the procedures required to perform the task. Make sure all equipment used is rated for the loads involved.

Q: Why should you never overload the hoist?
A: Never overload the hoist! Know the weight of the object or force to pull the cable before starting the job.

Q: When is it acceptable to move a load the operator cannot see?
A: Never move a load the operator cannot see without proper communication. Communication with a second worker watching the load is necessary (standardized hand signals or radio communication).

Q: What must be inspected before every job when using a capstan hoist?
A: Never use a malfunctioning or damaged hoist. Thoroughly inspect before every job for: Function, bent, broken, or missing parts.

Q: What is the safety rule regarding lifting people or loads over people?
A: Never lift people or loads over people! It's easy to not notice the operation and walk under a load line.

Q: What must be analyzed regarding potential danger zones?
A: Beware of potential danger zones and stay clear. Analyze the job for location and for each piece of equipment: Applied forces, Direction of forces, What can happen if something breaks?

Q: What is the critical safety rule about operating a capstan hoist?
A: Never operate a hoist without the foot control.

Q: What are the important safety rules regarding turns of rope on the drum?
A: Never add or remove turns of rope while a load is suspended. Use the same number of turns to lower a load as is required to raise the load. Never use so many turns of rope that no pull is required on the pull line to activate the load.

Q: What capstan hoist feature helps control the on/off function?
A: Foot switch/pedal.

Q: When should you inspect the capstan hoist?
A: Before each use.

Q: Why do you need to ensure the capstan hoist is the only item connected to the electric power source?
A: Other tools reduce the flow of electricity to the capstan resulting in reduced pulling power. This can lead to burn out of capstan motor.

Q: When using a receiver hitch, what must be done to the vehicle in addition to chocking the wheels?
A: Place vehicle in park and engage the emergency brake.
