Q: What course standards is the Signalperson training written in accordance with?
A: NCCCO (National Commission for the Certification of Crane Operators) Standards

Q: What are the signalperson qualification requirements under 1926 Subpart CC?
A: Know and understand qualification requirements, succeed in oral/written/practical testing, understand crane operations and limitations (dynamics, hoisting, lowering, swinging, stopping loads, deflection), know the signals used, and be competent in the use of those signals

Q: What are the four main causes of crane accidents?
A: Instability (unsecured load, load capacity exceeded, ground not level or too soft), Lack of communication (operation point is distant from operator or not in full view), Lack of training (employer must ensure signalperson meets qualification requirements), Inadequate maintenance or inspection (equipment failure can cause problems)

Q: When do crane accidents typically occur?
A: During assembly, operation, and disassembly

Q: Who is at risk during crane operations?
A: Crane operator(s) and any persons at the crane site

Q: What are the key roles in crane operations?
A: Assembly/Disassembly Director, Lift Director (can be A/D Director), Crane Operator, Site Supervisor, Ground Crew (Qualified Rigger and Signalperson)

Q: What OSHA regulations cover crane signaling (1926 Subpart CC)?
A: 1926.1419 - Signals-general requirements, 1926.1428 - Signalperson qualifications, 1926.1404 - Assembly/Disassembly-general requirements, 1926.1430 - Training, 1926.1431 - Hoisting personnel, 1926.1441 - Equipment with rated lifting capacity of 2,000 lbs or less

Q: What OSHA 1910 regulations apply to cranes?
A: 1910.179 - Overhead and gantry cranes, 1910.180 - Crawler locomotive and truck cranes

Q: What ASME best practice standards apply to cranes?
A: ASME B30.5 - Mobile & Locomotive Cranes, ASME B30.3 - Tower Cranes

Q: What procedures must be learned for operating near overhead power lines?
A: Procedures for operating near de-energized power lines, energized power lines, establishing a prohibited zone, established distances from power lines, and what to do in the event of hitting power lines

Q: What is a control zone per 1926.1424(a)(1)?
A: Accessible areas in which the equipment's rotating superstructure poses a reasonably foreseeable risk

Q: What must be done when any part of a crane/derrick is within the working radius of another crane/derrick per 1926.1424(b)?
A: The controlling entity must institute a system to coordinate operations

Q: What are the personnel platform requirements for rigging?
A: Rigging must be 10 degrees of level, platform must support 5 times maximum load intended, grab rail around the entire perimeter, gates must NOT swing outward

Q: What are the three methods of determining how close to overhead power lines a crane can work?
A: 1) De-energize and ground, 2) Establish a 20 foot clearance, 3) Consult 1926.1407 Table A

Q: According to ASME B30.5-3.2.1.5, what must the person directing the lift ensure before lifting?
A: (a) The person directing the lift shall see that the load is secured and balanced in the sling or lifting device before lifted more than a few inches

Q: What is boom deflection and why is it important?
A: Before lifting, ensure the hook is directly over the load. Hoist up slowly and adjust boom angle to maintain the hoist line to vertical/plumb. If not compensated for, the load will move causing a crushing hazard

Q: What is drift in crane operations (B30.5-3.2.1.5)?
A: Drift is the lateral movement (in any direction) of a crane's hook or load that was not intentionally caused by the crane operator. Care must be taken to prevent sudden acceleration or deceleration that could cause the load to drift out of chart

Q: What level requirements must a crane meet per 1926.1431(c)(1)?
A: Crane must be uniformly leveled, within 1% of level grade, to achieve rated capacity

Q: What is two blocking?
A: A condition in which a component uppermost on the hoist line (such as the load block) comes in contact with the boom tip. This binds the system and continued application of power can cause failure of the hoist rope or other component. OSHA 1926.1431(5)(v) strictly prohibits raising personnel without an anti-two block device

Q: What must minimum planning documentation include?
A: Risk assessment, Lift Plan, JSEA, and Safety Checklist

Q: What hazards does ice buildup on crane equipment create?
A: On boom - ice could fall causing overhead drop hazards; on sheaves and drum - could cause cable to push off causing mechanical damage

Q: What hazards does rain create for crane operations?
A: Visibility concerns and ground condition issues (out-rigger may sink causing the crane to go out of level)

Q: What must be done prior to beginning lift operations regarding signals?
A: Prior to beginning lift operations, the signals shall be discussed and agreed upon by the person directing lifting operations, the crane operator, and the appointed signalperson

Q: What must be tested before commencing crane operations?
A: Telephones or radios (or equivalent) shall be tested before commencing operations to ensure that the signal transmission is clear and reliable

Q: What words should be avoided when using voice commands for crane operations?
A: Avoid words that could be misinterpreted, such as: Affirming the word "Right!" may be misinterpreted as "move right"

Q: What words should be used instead of "repeat" in voice communication?
A: Try using "Correct" or "Acknowledged". To have someone repeat a statement, use "say again?" instead of "repeat" which may be interpreted as repeating a crane function

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Boom Down and Raise the Load"?
A: Arm extended horizontally to the side, thumb pointing down, fingers open and close while load movement is desired

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Boom Up and Lower the Load"?
A: Arm extended horizontally to the side, thumb pointing up, fingers open and close while load movement is desired

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Stop"?
A: Arm extended horizontally to the side, palm down, arm is swung back and forth

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Emergency Stop"?
A: Both arms extended horizontally to the side, palms down, arms are swung back and forth

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Travel"?
A: All fingers pointing up, arm is extended horizontally out and back to make a pushing motion in the direction of travel

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Dog Everything"?
A: Hands held together at waist level

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Travel (Both Tracks)" for crawler cranes?
A: Rotate fists around each other in front of body; direction of rotation towards body indicates travel forward, rotation away from body indicates travel backward (crawler cranes only)

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Travel (One Track)" for crawler cranes?
A: Indicate track to be locked by raising fist on that side. Rotate other fist in front of body in direction that other track is to travel (crawler cranes only)

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Telescope Out (Telescoping Booms)" with two hands?
A: Hands to the front at waist level, thumbs point outward with other fingers closed

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Telescope In (Telescoping Booms)" with two hands?
A: Hands to the front at waist level, thumbs point at each other with other fingers closed

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Telescope Out (Telescoping Booms)" with one hand?
A: One fist in front of chest with thumb tapping chest

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Telescope In (Telescoping Booms)" with one hand?
A: One fist in front of chest, thumb pointing outward and heel of fist tapping chest

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Tower Travel" for tower cranes?
A: All fingers pointing up, arm is extended horizontally out and back to make a pushing motion in the direction of travel

Q: What is the standard hand signal for "Trolley Travel" for tower cranes?
A: Palm up, fingers closed, and thumb pointing in direction of motion, hand is jerked in direction trolley is to travel

Q: What are the audible signals for moving vehicles on a job site?
A: Stop = One short audible signal (BEEP), Go Ahead = Two short audible signals, Back Up = Three short audible signals

Q: Where can topics or examples referenced by page numbers (like "Pg 238") be found in the training?
A: On that page of the Klinke Rigging Handbook

Q: What signal can anyone on a work site give?
A: The STOP signal - anyone can give the stop signal

Q: What assessment is given upon completion of the signalperson course?
A: A written exam and a practical evaluation
